Welcome back.
It's time for us to implement our own hash table.
But let's do a bit of an exercise and this may be difficult.
So don't get upset if you are not able to finish it after this.
I'll provide a solution video and we'll walk through it.
But as an extra challenge I have created a template for you a new hash table that we're going to create.
Yes I know javascript already has objects and we can just simply create one.
Like we've seen before.
But what's the fun in that.
Let's create our own.
Now this hash table has a constructor that will receive a size so when we create this hash table we're
gonna give it a memory space size of 50.
Let's say that we only want 50 shelves of memory.
We're going to create this data where our data will live and within it it's going to create a new array
and this array is going to hold our information for us.
So we would have something like grapes
and ten thousand as our bucket so the first item in the array will be an array that is grapes ten thousand.
Remember if we looked at the diagram we have these buckets that our data lives in and because right
now we're implementing our own hash tables we're using array instead of objects but the idea is that
using a new method that you'll have to create which will be called set you're going to be able to set
grapes as the first index in the array and the number of grapes as the second index in the array.
And from there we can have a another method get which retrieves the grapes and returns 10000.
Now you're probably wondering oh boy what is this gibberish.
And I wrote this ahead of time for you because it's not really important as part of the course.
But remember we need a hash function in order to create a hash table and I've created here the smallest
tiniest hash function you can think of.
We're going to talk about what this actually does in the solution video for now.
All you have to know is that it's going to just generate a hash for us.
For example if I do underscore hash here and give it a key so let's say that I want to insert grapes
and I click Run I get 23 if I click Run Again I always get twenty three if I change grapes to two S's
I get a different memory space if I just type in randomly here again I get different memory spaces all
from zero to 50 so your challenge here is to create these two new methods set and get that adds to this
dot data and retrieves from this data again if you're not super familiar with JavaScript this may be
hard but give it a try and in the next video we'll walk through step by step I'll see you now in my.